---
title: Your Vision for 2020
layout: post
author: Jayce
image: "/assets/BP2.jpg"
post_description: As we look forward to the future in the midst of the pandemic, what does this new reality look like, and how do we as humans adapt to the long-term changes COV-19 has brought? 
categories: [Challenges, Mental Health, Self-care, Acceptance]
permalink: /:title
---
As we rang in the new decade in January, many of us were excited as we anticipated what the year would hold. We expected 2020 to be the year of vision as we focused on achieving our ambitions. However, by the time March arrived, it was clear this year was unlike any we had ever experienced before. In December, the World Health Organization obtained reports of an illness, with symptoms that were similar to pneumonia. However, once researchers studied the virus, they realized its close relationship to other members of the coronavirus family, such as the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) virus. Thus, COVID-19 was born. The virus quickly spread throughout China and Southeast Asia, and though nations worldwide tried to implement measures to stop the proliferation of COVID-19,  it advanced across geographical borders before it was contained. Hotspots began to emerge throughout the world, as cases began to grow throughout China, Italy, Brazil, Spain, France and the U.S. 

Today, not one nation remains unaffected from the many consequences of this pandemic. Travel has been discouraged as nations go into lockdown and stay at home orders are put into place. To protect ourselves when we are out in the community, our masks are in hand along with our wallet, keys and phone when we leave our homes. We have grown accustomed to a completely new vocabulary consisting of phrases such as "social distancing", “self- quarantine” and "flattening the curve" among many more. Especially as a new school year is underway, many students across the U.S. are attending classes from their homes, through online platforms. Though we are still learning how to navigate a new normal in the midst of the pandemic, we are striving to protect ourselves, our families, as well as our community, even if we must compromise some aspects of our daily routine for the sake of safety.

Life in the midst of a coronavirus outbreak can be especially challenging when you are entering a phase of life that is traditionally filled with excitement and joy, but is now marked by fear and uncertainty. Below, I have asked two of my friends for their perspective in the midst of the current season of their life:

“With Covid-19 on the rise, a cap has been sealed on every aspect of our day to day lives. While universities are doing their best to make sure they have the best interests of their students at heart, life for college students is going to look different this upcoming school year. As an incoming freshman to the University of Hartford, my college experience does not at all resemble the expectations I had for how my year will go.  While some classes are going to be in person, students will have to attend from home or from their dorm for other classes. There will be a smaller number of students joining in person classes in order to maintain social distancing and to ensure the safety of everyone. In addition to this, masks are mandatory as well as daily health screenings. As for activities, clubs, and sports, they have been cancelled until further notice. 
The reason I initially chose to go out of state for college was so that I could experience what life is like outside of Philadelphia. Even though my school year is not going the way I would’ve preferred it to, since both my academic and social life will be limited, I'm glad that universities are doing their best to follow guidelines in order to prevent the number of COVID-19 cases from rising. Hopefully by cooperating with state protocols, students will be able to enjoy their college years ahead!” - R.G.

“As an expecting mom with two young children (ages 4 and 2) I am truly scared for what the future brings since COVID-19 has hit. There are too many unknowns. My heart breaks for my children who have to now experience the world so differently and for my husband who can not attend any of my doctors appointments during my pregnancy, let alone know what is to come when our new baby is born. As sad as it is, It is hard to believe that life will go back to "normal" any time soon and that is honestly the scariest part.” - R.S.


Though the original dreams and aspirations we held for 2020 remain on hold as we continue to uphold national and local guidelines in regards to the pandemic, our life itself does not need to pause while we wait for a breakthrough in the medical community in regards to slowing the spread of COVID-19. For example, the livelihoods of many people were affected as the economy shut down to prevent the transmission of the virus. However, as business owners considered what steps to take next, they realized they could utilize the resources technology had to offer. Bakeries began offering virtual baking classes while salons hosted group sessions for children to teach them how to take care of their natural hair. Though it is not easy to shift gears and change your focus, it is a vital step in order to thrive in the midst of this outbreak. Whether that may look like learning how to adapt to pre-recorded lectures by hosting online zoom study sessions or by maintaining friendships by having socially distanced picnics at the park together, it is one way to continue a sense of normalcy while adjusting to the changes the year has brought. By doing so, we can rise to the challenge 2020 has brought, and instead of fixating on the adversities in front of us, we can focus on how far we have come as individuals and as a community in the midst of a global pandemic.