---
title: Fighting for a better day
layout: post
author: Jayce
image: "/assets/BP11.jpeg"
post_description: Jayce emphasizes the importance of Black Lives Matter by discussing the death of George Floyd.
categories: [Anxiety, Mental Health, Acceptance, Challenges]
permalink: /:title
---
On May 25th 2020, a senseless act of police brutality occurred that would rock our nation to the core. George Floyd was arrested in the city of Minneapolis because he paid for a pack of cigarettes with a $20 bill that was suspected to be counterfeit. Police officers first approached him with a drawn gun. When officers attempted to seat him in the police car, Floyd fell to the pavement and told officers his body was hurting and that he was claustrophobic. From there, the situation escalated. Officer Derek Chauvin pulled him to the ground and then as Floyd was restrained by the other officers, Chauvin placed his knee on the neck of Floyd. Chauvin stayed in that position for 7 minutes and 46 seconds as Floyd cried out “I can’t breathe” and “You’re going to kill me.” After approximately six minutes, Floyd became unconscious, yet Chauvin’s knee continued to press against his neck as the other officers on the scene checked his pulse and were unable to find one. An ambulance came and took him to the hospital, where George Floyd was pronounced dead.


The next day, protests erupted in Minneapolis as outrage and distress flooded the city. Citizens united to object to the unjust murder of George Floyd through a movement called Black Lives Matter. Black Lives Matter began in 2014 after countless black individuals lost their lives due to the actions of police officers. In the subsequent days, major cities across the U.S. followed suit as thousands came together to protest yet another victim of police brutality. George Floyd’s death reminded many of the circumstances that surrounded the killing of Trayvon Martin, Philando Castille, Alton Sterling, Eric Garner and many others whose lives were wrongfully taken. In the moments before their death, each one was seen as a threat to safety due to the color of their skin, though there was no indication of any such peril. Excessive and unnecessary force was used against each of these individuals which resulted in their death. This type of defensive response stems from generations of prejudice that has been ingrained in the minds of many Americans, who in a split second can stereotype a person’s character based on the amount of melanin in their skin. These dangerous assumptions, known as racial profiling, can often mean life and death for the black community in America. 


Protests across the U.S. began drawing attention to these matters, and sparked a national dialogue regarding racial discrimination and police brutality. Conversations began in work breakrooms, classrooms, church sanctuaries, and many other spaces across the U.S. that had never occurred before. Social media was the focal point of the movement as Instagram became an essential source of information regarding the organization of protests. People also showed their support through their online presence on Facebook, Snapchat, Tik Tok and Reddit, and began thought provoking discussions that are still occurring to this day.  As protestors continued to grow in number, their voice became stronger and louder until they could not be ignored any longer. Eventually, the police officers involved in the death of George Floyd were arrested and charged for their actions. Though there is still much to be done in terms of ending police brutality and reaching racial equity, the protests following George Floyd’s death proved there is strength in unity. After the support of hundreds of thousands of people nationwide, justice was finally served for the death of George Floyd. 


Throughout May, June and July of 2020 following George Floyd’s arrest and murder, I have seen many of my friends voice their support for Black Lives Matter by attending protests, sparking online dialogue and beginning face to face conversations. I asked them why they were passionate about this cause and why supporting protests is so vital. This is what they had to say: 


<b>“When some people think about protests, they think about riots and looting. They think about destruction and lawlessness. What they don’t think about is the people assembling for a cause they are passionate about. They don’t think about the people peacefully assembling and marching with each other in solidarity for what they believe is right. They let the actions of the minority cast a shadow on the majority of peaceful protestors. They don’t try to see the importance of protests and why they should be supportive. People protest because they believe there is an injustice that needs to be addressed and corrected. People protest because they feel as though they have tried everything else, but there is no other way for their voices to be heard. People protest because they know it will make those who are against us uncomfortable. Protests are a catalyst for bringing about changing the world for the better, and more and more people want to be a part of making that change. Looking at the political and social movements around the world, such as LGBT Rights, Black Lives Matter, and the Hong Kong protests, we see that the attention protests bring leads to difficult conversations being had. These conversations lead to knowledge about situations people may have not have had previously and allows them to possibly change their points of view. When we, as a people, embrace our similarities and promote those around us—regardless of our differences, we make the world a better and more just place for generations to come.” - T.F.</b>


<b>“Until we are all free, we are none of us free.” - Emma Lazarus</b>


<b> "When it comes to freedom, the United States speaks a good game, but our actions do not back up our words. One of the original documents asserting America’s independence from Britain were words that were so eloquently written by a man who owned other people. It is strange to think about our Declaration of Independence in this way, but it shows something that is still prevalent in this day in age. Our definition of “freedom” is based on convenience and opportunity. If something does not directly affect you, then it is not really an issue. Case in point, take a look at police brutality and the legal system as a whole. Whenever police cross the line, how many people say things like, “Well, if they would only have followed instructions, they wouldn’t be dead!” when it involves a person of color in particular? How does a man like Dylan Roof get taken alive, without a scratch, and given a hamburger and a man like Philando Castile who did all the right things and followed instructions, end up dead? He was killed on Facebook for the world to see.vHow does George Floyd lose his life for suspicion of having a counterfeit twenty dollar bill and Nikolas Cruz, who shot up Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School sits comfortably in a cell? 
I bring up these examples because the Black Lives Matter movement is attacking these injustices head on and exposing a legal system that does not work out in dealing justice the same way towards everyone. I am not anti-police, so I want to get that out of the way. I am, however, anti-injustice. We all should be.  People want law and order, but we, the people, want law and order that is fair and just. Until we can all have confidence in the law to preserve and enforce justice equally to all peoples, we will consistently deal with a broken system. Police need more and better training. Too often we see the use of force as the first option. The officers then sometimes state that they reacted in that way because they were scared. It’s alright to be scared, but if your fear leads you to immediately grab your weapon and take a life, maybe law enforcement is not for you. Firefighters are scared every time they get called to a fire. They don’t run from it, they run into the blaze to save lives. Fear cannot take over, because when it does, people lose their lives. A police officer is not a hero because they have a Batman-style utility belt with various gadgets and a gun. They are heroes because they protect their communities by their involvement and by keeping people safe from harm. A community should not fear the people they pay to protect them.  Black Lives Matter. Until all of our brothers and sisters can go about their lives and enjoy the same privileges some of us take for granted, we will be fooling ourselves believing we are free. Black Lives Matter. Liberty and Justice for all.... not some, not most, ALL.” -M.M.
</b>

As we protest against the forces that endanger black lives within our county, it is also essential that we protect our own mental health as we fight against injustice. Though mental health is often the last item on our list of priorities when we see countless individuals losing their lives due to police brutality, it is one of the most vital things we can do to ensure we can continue being active participants and powerful voices for this movement. One thing to keep in mind is that we may not see change in a day, month, year or even an era. It takes time to shift attitudes, beliefs and policies as each new generation rises and decides whether or not they want to continue passing on the past decades of prejudice they inherited and remain complacent in their bias or if they want to step out with determination to instead help ensure the equity of all minorities, especially the black community in the future. However, that does not mean we stop moving forward in the struggle against implicit racism against black Americans. Our efforts are not worthless, and though we may not see direct results instantly, that should not discourage us. When safeguarding your mental health, another concept to consider is the importance of grasping and contextualizing the events occurring around us. Fighting against systems of inequality means that you may see heartbreaking incidents in person, on the news or on social media. They may be violent or traumatizing and negatively impact the wellbeing of your mental state. In moments such as these, it is essential to take the time you need to process the events that are unfolding around you. If you find yourself struggling with feelings of frustration or helplessness, reach out to individuals within your circle, or anonymously online through various platforms. Understanding that you are not the only person confronting these emotions and vocalizing them will help in managing them and allowing yourself to continue in the struggle for justice. 


Though May 25th, 2020 will be remembered as the day George Floyd lost his life due to the actions of police officer Derek Chauvin, it also was the day that lifted the Black Live Matter movement into the national spotlight. To this day, protests continue as activists denounce these acts of police brutality and call for accountability so black Americans can live without fear of being targeted by officers. As demonstrations and conversations continue to take place regarding these matters, it is also vital to safeguard your mental state so you can continue challenging systems of oppression without feeling burned out and discouraged. As Ayo Clemens from Minneapolis states, "The more we take care of our mental, emotional and spiritual well-being, the better we will be able to show up for ourselves, each other and the movement."


To read more on the effects of police brutality and racism on the mental wellbeing of the black community, you can take a look at Nylah Burton’s article, <a href = "https://www.shondaland.com/act/news-politics/a32784991/black-lives-matter-protecting-mental-health/"> How are Black Lives Matters protestors protecting their mental health? </a>

